1: ¶ Thou shalt not receive a vain report: thou shalt not agree with the unjust [man] to become an unjust witness.
2: Thou shalt not associate with the multitude for evil; thou shalt not join thyself with a multitude to turn aside with the majority so as to shut out judgment.
3: And thou shalt not spare a poor man in judgment.
4: And if thou meet thine enemy's ox or his ass going astray, thou shalt turn them back and restore them to him.
5: And if thou see thine enemy's ass fallen under its burden, thou shalt not pass by it, but shalt help to raise it with him.
6: ¶ Thou shalt not wrest the sentence of the poor in his judgment.
7: Thou shalt abstain from every unjust thing: thou shalt not slay the innocent and just, and thou shalt not justify the wicked for gifts.
8: And thou shalt not receive gifts; for gifts blind the eyes of the seeing, and corrupt just words.
9: And ye shall not afflict a stranger, for ye know the heart of a stranger; for ye were yourselves strangers in the land of Egypt.
10: Six years thou shalt sow thy land, and gather in the fruits of it.
11: But in the seventh year thou shalt let it rest, and leave it, and the poor of thy nation shall feed; and the wild beasts of the field shall eat that which remains: thus shalt thou do to thy vineyard and to thine oliveyard.
12: Six days shalt thou do thy works, and on the seventh day there shall be rest, that thine ox and thine ass may rest, and that the son of thy maid-servant and the stranger may be refreshed.
13: Observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you; and ye shall make no mention of the name of other gods, neither shall they be heard out of your mouth.
14: ¶ Keep ye a feast to me three times in the year.
15: Take heed to keep the feast of unleavened bread: seven days ye shall eat unleavened bread, as I charged thee at the season of the month of new [corn], for in it thou camest out of Egypt: thou shalt not appear before me empty.
16: And thou shalt keep the feast of the harvest of first-fruits of thy labours, whatsoever thou shalt have sown in thy field, and the feast of completion at the end of the year in the gathering in of thy fruits out of thy field.
17: Three times in the year shall all thy males appear before the Lord thy God.
18: For when I shall have cast out the nations from before thee, and shall have widened thy borders, thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leaven, neither must the fat of my feast abide till the morning.
19: Thou shalt bring the first-offerings of the first-fruits of thy land into the house of the Lord thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a lamb in its mother's milk.
20: And, behold, I send my angel before thy face, that he may keep thee in the way, that he may bring thee into the land which I have prepared for thee.
21: Take heed to thyself and hearken to him, and disobey him not; for he will not give way to thee, for my name is on him.
22: If ye will indeed hear my voice, and if thou wilt do all the things I shall charge thee with, and keep my covenant, ye shall be to me a peculiar people above all nations, for the whole earth is mine; and ye shall be to me a royal priesthood, and a holy nation: these words shall ye speak to the children of Israel, If ye shall indeed hear my voice, and do all the things I shall tell thee, I will be an enemy to thine enemies, and an adversary to thine adversaries.
23: For my angel shall go as thy leader, and shall bring thee to the Amorite, and Chettite, and Pherezite, and Chananite, and Gergesite, and Evite, and Jebusite, and I will destroy them.
24: Thou shalt not worship their gods, nor serve them: thou shalt not do according to their works, but shalt utterly destroy them, and break to pieces their pillars.
25: And thou shalt serve the Lord thy God, and I will bless thy bread and thy wine and thy water, and I will turn away sickness from you.
26: There shall not be on thy land one that is impotent or barren. I will surely fulfil the number of thy days.
27: And I will send terror before thee, and I will strike with amazement all the nations to which thou shalt come, and I will make all thine enemies to flee.
28: And I will send hornets before thee, and thou shalt cast out the Amorites and the Evites, and the Chananites and the Chettites from thee.
29: I will not cast them out in one year, lest the land become desolate, and the beasts of the field multiply against thee.
30: By little [and little] I will cast them out from before thee, until thou shalt be increased and inherit the earth.
31: And I will set thy borders from the Red Sea, to the sea of the Phylistines, and from the wilderness to the great river Euphrates; and I will give into your hand those that dwell in the land, and will cast them out from thee.
32: Thou shalt make no covenant with them and their gods.
33: And they shall not dwell in thy land, lest they cause thee to sin against me; for if thou shouldest serve their gods, these will be an offence to thee.
