1: ¶ And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
2: Speak to the children of Israel, and take first-fruits of all, who may be disposed in their heart to give; and ye shall take my first-fruits.
3: And this is the offering which ye shall take of them; gold and silver and brass,
4: and blue, and purple, and double scarlet, and fine spun linen, and goats' hair,
5: and rams' skins dyed red, and blue skins, and incorruptible wood,
6: and oil for the light, incense for anointing oil, and for the composition of incense,
7: and sardius stones, and stones for the carved work of the breast-plate, and the full-length robe.
8: And thou shalt make me a sanctuary, and I will appear among you.
9: And thou shalt make for me according to all things which I shew thee in the mountain; even the pattern of the tabernacle, and the pattern of all its furniture: so shalt thou make it.
10: And thou shalt make the ark of testimony of incorruptible wood; the length of two cubits and a half, and the breadth of a cubit and a half, and the height of a cubit and a half.
11: And thou shalt gild it with pure gold, thou shalt gild it within and without; and thou shalt make for it golden wreaths twisted round about.
12: And thou shalt cast for it four golden rings, and shalt put them on the four sides; two rings on the one side, and two rings on the other side.
13: And thou shalt make staves [of] incorruptible wood, and shalt gild them with gold.
14: And thou shalt put the staves into the rings on the sides of the ark, to bear the ark with them.
15: The staves shall remain fixed in the rings of the ark.
16: And thou shalt put into the ark the testimonies which I shall give thee.
17: And thou shalt make a propitiatory, a lid of pure gold; the length of two cubits and a half, and the breadth of a cubit and a half.
18: And thou shalt make two cherubs graven in gold, and thou shalt put them on both sides of the propitiatory.
19: They shall be made, one cherub on this side, and another cherub on the other side of the propitiatory; and thou shalt make the two cherubs on the two sides.
20: The cherubs shall stretch forth their wings above, overshadowing the propitiatory with their wings; and their faces shall be toward each other, the faces of the cherubs shall be toward the propitiatory.
21: And thou shalt set the propitiatory on the ark above, and thou shalt put into the ark the testimonies which I shall give thee.
22: And I will make myself known to thee from thence, and I will speak to thee above the propitiatory between the two cherubs, which are upon the ark of testimony, even in all things which I shall charge thee concerning the children of Israel.
23: And thou shalt make a golden table of pure gold, in length two cubits, and in breadth a cubit, and in height a cubit and a half.
24: And thou shalt make for it golden wreaths twisted round about, and thou shalt make for it a crown of an hand-breadth round about.
25: ¶ And thou shalt make a twisted wreath for the crown round about.
26: And thou shalt make four golden rings; and thou shalt put the four rings upon the four parts of its feet under the crown.
27: And the rings shall be for bearings for the staves, that they may bear the table with them.
28: And thou shalt make the staves of incorruptible wood, and thou shalt gild them with pure gold; and the table shall be borne with them.
29: And thou shalt make its dishes and its censers, and its bowls, and its cups, with which thou shalt offer drink-offerings: of pure gold shalt thou make them.
30: And thou shalt set upon the table shewbread before me continually.
31: ¶ And thou shalt make a candlestick of pure gold; thou shalt make the candlestick of graven work: its stem and its branches, and its bowls and its knops and its lilies shall be of one piece.
32: And six branches proceeding sideways, three branches of the candlestick from one side of it, and three branches of the candlestick from the other side.
33: And three bowls fashioned like almonds, on each branch a knop and a lily; so to the six branches proceeding from the candlestick,
34: and in the candlestick four bowls fashioned like almonds, in each branch knops and the flowers of the same.
35: A knop under two branches out of it, and a knop under four branches out of it; so to the six branches proceeding from the candlestick; and in the candlestick four bowls fashioned like almonds.
36: Let the knops and the branches be of one piece, altogether graven of one piece of pure gold.
37: And thou shalt make its seven lamps: and thou shalt set on [it] the lamps, and they shall shine from one front.
38: And thou shalt make its funnel and its snuff-dishes of pure gold.
39: All these articles [shall be] a talent of pure gold.
40: See, thou shalt make them according to the pattern shewed thee in the mount.
