1: ¶ And thou shalt make an altar of incorruptible wood, of five cubits in the length, and five cubits in the breadth; the altar shall be square, and the height of it shall be of three cubits.
2: And thou shalt make the horns on the four corners; the horns shall be of the same piece, and thou shalt overlay them with brass.
3: And thou shalt make a rim for the altar; and its covering and its cups, and its flesh-hooks, and its fire-pan, and all its vessels shalt thou make of brass.
4: And thou shalt make for it a brazen grate with net-work; and thou shalt make for the grate four brazen rings under the four sides.
5: And thou shalt put them below under the grate of the altar, and the grate shall extend to the middle of the altar.
6: And thou shalt make for the altar staves of incorruptible wood, and thou shalt overlay them with brass.
7: And thou shalt put the staves into the rings; and let the staves be on the sides of the altar to carry it.
8: Thou shalt make it hollow with boards: according to what was shewed thee in the mount, so thou shalt make it.
9: And thou shalt make a court for the tabernacle, curtains of the court of fine linen spun on the south side, the length of a hundred cubits for one side.
10: And their pillars twenty, and twenty brazen sockets for them, and their rings and their clasps of silver.
11: Thus [shall there be] to the side toward the north curtains of a hundred cubits in length; and their pillars twenty, and their sockets twenty of brass, and the rings and the clasps of the pillars, and their sockets overlaid with silver.
12: And in the breadth of the tabernacle toward the west curtains of fifty cubits, their pillars ten and their sockets ten.
13: And in the breadth of the tabernacle toward the south, curtains of fifty cubits; their pillars ten, and their sockets ten.
14: And the height of the curtains [shall be] of fifty cubits for the one side [of the gate]; their pillars three, and their sockets three.
15: And [for] the second side the height of the curtains [shall be] of fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three.
16: And a veil for the door of the court, the height [of it] of twenty cubits of blue linen, and of purple, and spun scarlet, and of fine linen spun with the art of the embroiderer; their pillars four, and their sockets four.
17: All the pillars of the court round about overlaid with silver, and their chapiters silver and their brass sockets.
18: And the length of the court [shall be] a hundred [cubits] on each side, and the breadth fifty on each side, and the height five cubits of fine linen spun, and their sockets of brass.
19: And all the furniture and all the instruments and the pins of the court [shall be] of brass.
20: ¶ And do thou charge the children of Israel, and let them take for thee refined pure olive-oil beaten to burn for light, that a lamp may burn continually
21: in the tabernacle of the testimony, without the veil that is before the [ark of the] covenant, shall Aaron and his sons burn it from evening until morning, before the Lord: it is a perpetual ordinance throughout your generations of the children of Israel.
