1: ¶ And they made ten curtains for the tabernacle;
2: of eight and twenty cubits the length of one curtain: the same [measure] was to all, and the breadth of one curtain was of four cubits.
3: And they made the veil of blue, and purple, and spun scarlet, and fine linen twined, the woven work with cherubs.
4: And they put it on four posts of incorruptible [wood] overlaid with gold; and their chapiters were gold, and their four sockets were silver.
5: And they made the veil of the door of the tabernacle of witness of blue, and purple, and spun scarlet, and fine linen twined, woven work with cherubs,
6: and their posts five, and the rings; and they gilded their chapiters and their clasps with gold, and they had five sockets of brass.
7: ¶ And they made the court toward the south; the curtains of the court of fine linen twined, a hundred [cubits] every way,
8: and their posts twenty, and their sockets twenty;
9: and on the north side a hundred every way, and on the south side a hundred every way, and their posts twenty and their sockets twenty.
10: And on the west side curtains of fifty cubits, their posts ten and their sockets ten.
11: And on the east side curtains of fifty cubits of fifteen cubits behind,
12: and their pillars three, and their sockets three.
13: And at the second back on this side and on that by the gate of the court, curtains of fifteen cubits, their pillars three and their sockets three;
14: all the curtains of the tabernacle of fine linen twined.
15: And the sockets of their pillars of brass, and their hooks of silver, and their chapiters overlaid with silver, and all the posts of the court overlaid with silver:
16: and the veil of the gate of the court, the work of an embroiderer of blue, and purple, and spun scarlet, and fine linen twined; the length of twenty cubits, and the height and the breadth of five cubits, made equal to the curtains of the court;
17: and their pillars four, and their sockets four of brass, and their hooks of silver, and their chapiters overlaid with silver.
18: And all the pins of the court round about of brass, and they [were] overlaid with silver.
19: And this was the construction of the tabernacle of witness, accordingly as it was appointed to Moses; so that the public service should belong to the Levites, through Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.
20: ¶ And Beseleel the son of Urias of the tribe of Juda, did as the Lord commanded Moses.
21: And Eliab the son of Achisamach of the tribe of Dan [was there], who was chief artificer in the woven works and needle-works and embroideries, in weaving with the scarlet and fine linen.
