1: ¶ And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
2: On the first day of the first month, at the new moon, thou shalt set up the tabernacle of witness,
3: and thou shalt place [in it] the ark of the testimony, and shalt cover the ark with the veil,
4: and thou shalt bring in the table and shalt set forth that which is to be set forth on it; and thou shalt bring in the candlestick and place its lamps on it.
5: And thou shalt place the golden altar, to burn incense before the ark; and thou shalt put a covering of a veil on the door of the tabernacle of witness.
6-8: And thou shalt put the altar of burnt-offerings by the doors of the tabernacle of witness, and thou shalt set up the tabernacle round about, and thou shalt hallow all that belongs to it round about.
9: And thou shalt take the anointing oil, and shalt anoint the tabernacle, and all things in it; and shalt sanctify it, and all its furniture, and it shall be holy.
10-11: And thou shalt anoint the altar of burnt-offerings, and all its furniture; and thou shalt hallow the altar, and the altar shall be most holy.
12: And thou shalt bring Aaron and his sons to the doors of the tabernacle of witness, and thou shalt wash them with water.
13: And thou shalt put on Aaron the holy garments, and thou shalt anoint him, and thou shalt sanctify him, and he shall minister to me as priest.
14: And thou shalt bring up his sons, and shalt put garments on them.
15: And thou shalt anoint them as thou didst anoint their father, and they shall minister to me as priests; and it shall be that they shall have an everlasting anointing of priesthood, throughout their generations.
16: And Moses did all things whatsoever the Lord commanded him, so did he.
17: ¶ And it came to pass in the first month, in the second year after their going forth out of Egypt, at the new moon, that the tabernacle was set up.
18: And Moses set up the tabernacle, and put on the chapiters, and put the bars into their places, and set up the posts.
19: And he stretched out the curtains over the tabernacle, and put the veil of the tabernacle on it above as the Lord commanded Moses.
20: And he took the testimonies, and put them into the ark; and he put the staves by the sides of the ark.
21: And he brought the ark into the tabernacle, and put on [it] the covering of the veil, and covered the ark of the testimony, as the Lord commanded Moses.
22: And he put the table in the tabernacle of witness, on the north side without the veil of the tabernacle.
23: And he put on it the shewbread before the Lord, as the Lord commanded Moses.
24: And he put the candlestick into the tabernacle of witness, on the side of the tabernacle toward the south.
25: And he put on it its lamps before the Lord, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
26: And he put the golden altar in the tabernacle of witness before the veil;
27-28: and he burnt on it incense of composition, as the Lord commanded Moses.
29-32: And he put the altar of the burnt-offerings by the doors of the tabernacle.
33: And he set up the court round about the tabernacle and the altar; and Moses accomplished all the works.
34: ¶ And the cloud covered the tabernacle of witness, and the tabernacle was filled with the glory of the Lord.
35: And Moses was not able to enter into the tabernacle of testimony, because the cloud overshadowed it, and the tabernacle was filled with the glory of the Lord.
36: And when the cloud went up from the tabernacle, the children of Israel prepared to depart with their baggage.
37: And if the cloud went not up, they did not prepare to depart, till the day when the cloud went up.
38: For a cloud was on the tabernacle by day, and fire was on it by night before all Israel, in all their journeyings.
