1: And when I had made an end of speaking these words, there was sent unto me the angel which had been sent unto me the nights afore:
2: And he said unto me, Up, Esdras, and hear the words that I am come to tell thee.
3: And I said, Speak on, my God. Then said he unto me, The sea is set in a wide place, that it might be deep and great.
4: But put the case the entrance were narrow, and like a river;
5: Who then could go into the sea to look upon it, and to rule it? if he went not through the narrow, how could he come into the broad?
6: There is also another thing; A city is builded, and set upon a broad field, and is full of all good things:
7: The entrance thereof is narrow, and is set in a dangerous place to fall, like as if there were a fire on the right hand, and on the left a deep water:
8: And one only path between them both, even between the fire and the water, [so small] that there could but one man go there at once.
9: If this city now were given unto a man for an inheritance, if he never shall pass the danger set before it, how shall he receive this inheritance?
10: And I said, It is so, Lord. Then said he unto me, Even so also is Israel's portion.
11: Because for their sakes I made the world: and when Adam transgressed my statutes, then was decreed that now is done.
12: Then were the entrances of this world made narrow, full of sorrow and travail: they are but few and evil, full of perils, and very painful.
13: For the entrances of the elder world were wide and sure, and brought immortal fruit.
14: If then they that live labour not to enter these strait and vain things, they can never receive those that are laid up for them.
15: Now therefore why disquietest thou thyself, seeing thou art but a corruptible man? and why art thou moved, whereas thou art but mortal?
16: Why hast thou not considered in thy mind this thing that is to come, rather than that which is present?
17: Then answered I and said, O Lord that bearest rule, thou hast ordained in thy law, that the righteous should inherit these things, but that the ungodly should perish.
18: Nevertheless the righteous shall suffer strait things, and hope for wide: for they that have done wickedly have suffered the strait things, and yet shall not see the wide.
19: And he said unto me, There is no judge above God, and none that hath understanding above the Highest.
20: For there be many that perish in this life, because they despise the law of God that is set before them.
21: For God hath given strait commandment to such as came, what they should do to live, even as they came, and what they should observe to avoid punishment.
22: Nevertheless they were not obedient unto him; but spake against him, and imagined vain things;
23: And deceived themselves by their wicked deeds; and said of the most High, that he is not; and knew not his ways:
24: But his law have they despised, and denied his covenants; in his statutes have they not been faithful, and have not performed his works.
25: And therefore, Esdras, for the empty are empty things, and for the full are the full things.
26: Behold, the time shall come, that these tokens which I have told thee shall come to pass, and the bride shall appear, and she coming forth shall be seen, that now is withdrawn from the earth.
27: And whosoever is delivered from the foresaid evils shall see my wonders.
28: For my son Jesus shall be revealed with those that be with him, and they that remain shall rejoice within four hundred years.
29: After these years shall my son Christ die, and all men that have life.
30: And the world shall be turned into the old silence seven days, like as in the former judgments: so that no man shall remain.
31: And after seven days the world, that yet awaketh not, shall be raised up, and that shall die that is corrupt.
32: And the earth shall restore those that are asleep in her, and so shall the dust those that dwell in silence, and the secret places shall deliver those souls that were committed unto them.
33: And the most High shall appear upon the seat of judgment, and misery shall pass away, and the long suffering shall have an end.
34: But judgment only shall remain, truth shall stand, and faith shall wax strong:
35: And the work shall follow, and the reward shall be shewed, and the good deeds shall be of force, and wicked deeds shall bear no rule.
36: And the lake of torment shall appear, and over against it shall be the place of rest; and the furnace of hell shall be shewn, and over against it the paradise of delight.
37: And then will the most High say to the nations that are raised up, Behold and understand whom ye denied, or whom ye served not, or whose observances ye despised.
38: Behold, on the other hand, what is opposite. Here is joy and rest, and there fire and torments. Thus will he speak and say unto them in the day of judgment.
39: This day is one that hath neither sun, nor moon, nor stars,
40: Nor cloud, nor thunder, nor lightning, nor wind, nor water, nor air, nor darkness, nor evening, nor morning,
41: Nor summer, nor spring, nor heat, nor storm, nor frost, nor cold, nor hail, nor rain, nor dew,
42: Nor noon, nor night, nor dawn, nor brightness, nor light, save only the splendour of the brightness of the most High, whereby all may begin to see the things that are set before them.
43: For it shall have a duration as it were of a week of years.
44: This is my judgment, and the ordinance thereof; and to thee only have I shewed these things.
45: And I answered, I both said it then, O Lord, and say it now: Blessed are they that now live and keep the things which thou hast ordained;
46: But what also of them for whom I prayed? For who is there of men now living that hath not sinned? or who is born that hath not transgressed thy covenant?
47: And now I see that the world to come will cause delight to few, but torments to many.
48: For there hath grown within us an evil heart, which hath estranged us from these things, and hath led us into corruption and the ways of death; hath shewn us the paths of destruction, and removed us far from life: and that, not a few, but well-nigh all that have been created.
49: And he answered me and said, Hear me, and I will instruct thee, and will admonish thee afresh.
50: For this cause the most High hath made not one world but two.
51: And do thou, forasmuch as thou saidst that there are not many righteous, but few, whereas the ungodly do multiply, listen to this:
52: If thou hast but very few precious stones, wilt thou gather together lead and clay, to add to their number?
53: And I said, Lord, how shall that be?
54: And he said unto me, Not only so; but ask of the earth, and it will tell thee; entreat it, and it will declare unto thee;
55: Thou shalt say to it, Thou bringest forth gold, and silver, and brass, and iron also, and lead and clay;
56: But silver is multiplied beyond gold, and brass beyond silver, and iron beyond brass, lead beyond iron, and clay beyond lead.
57: Reckon thou also which are the precious things and to be desired; that which is multiplied, or that which is by nature rare.
58: And I said, O Lord that bearest rule, that which is abundant is the more worthless, but that which is rarer is the more precious.
59: And he made answer to me and said, Ponder in thy mind what thou hast thought, seeing that he that hath what is hard to get rejoiceth over him that hath abundance.
60: So also is the creation promised again by me: for I will rejoice over the few, even them that shall be saved; forasmuch as it is they that have now made my glory more prevailing, and through whom my name is now named;
61: And I will not be sorry for the multitude of them that have perished; for they have been made like unto vapour and to flame; they have been made even as smoke and have consumed away; they have been on fire and are extinct.
62: And I answered and said, O thou earth, why hast thou brought forth, if understanding is made of the dust, like the rest of created things?
63: For it had been better for the dust itself not to be born, so that understanding might not be formed from it.
64: But, as it is, understanding groweth with us, and therefore do we suffer torment, because we perish and know it.
65: Let the race of men mourn, and the beasts of the field rejoice; let all that are born mourn, but let four-footed beasts and cattle be glad.
66: For it is much better for them than for us; for they expect not a judgment, and know not of torments, nor of salvation promised to them after death.
67: But what profit is it to us, that being saved we shall be saved, if we are to be tormented with torment?
68: For all that are born are mixed up with iniquities, and are full of sins, and laden with transgressions;
69: And if, after death, we had not been coming into judgment, it would perchance have gone better with us.
70: And he answered me and said, When the most High was creating the world, even Adam and all that came with him, he first prepared the judgment and the things that belong unto judgment.
71: And now learn concerning thy words, in that thou saidst that understanding groweth with us:
72: They therefore that are sojourning on earth will be tormented on this account, in that, while having understanding, they have wrought iniquity, and while receiving commandments, have not kept them, and having obtained a law, evaded the law which they received.
73: And what will they have to say in the judgment, or how will they answer in the last times?
74: For how long a time is it that the most High hath had patience with them that dwell in the world; and that, not on account of them, but on account of the seasons which he foresaw?
75: And I answered and said, O Lord that bearest rule, if I have found favour in thy sight, shew unto thy servant whether after death, even at the very moment when we give up each one his soul, we shall be kept safe in rest, till those times come wherein thou wilt begin to renew creation, or whether we are to be tormented at once.
76: And he answered me and said, I will shew unto thee this thing also. But do not thou mingle with them that have despised, nor number thyself with them that are tormented.
77: For there is a treasure of works laid up in store for thee with the most High, but it will not be shewn thee until the last times.
78: Howbeit our discourse is of death. When therefore there hath gone forth a fixed decree from the most High that a man should die, as the soul departeth from the body that it may be restored again to him that gave it, it first doth worship the glory of the most High.
79: And if the man were of them that despised and kept not the way of the most High, and of them that set at nought his law, and of them that hated such as fear him,
80: These souls will not enter into dwelling-places, but will straightway roam to and fro in torments, in pain and sorrow evermore.
81: The first way (of suffering) lieth in that they have despised the law of the most High.
82: The second, in that they cannot make a good return, so as to live.
83: The third, in that they see the reward laid up for them that have believed the covenants of the most High.
84: The fourth, in that they will consider the torment laid up in store for them at the last.
85: The fifth way lieth in their seeing the dwelling place of others to be guarded by angels in deep repose.
86: The sixth, in their seeing how some will pass over from among them into torment.
87: The seventh way is more dreadful than all the ways aforesaid, in that they will pine away in confusion, and be consumed in terrors, and waste away in fears, as they see the glory of the most High, in whose presence they have sinned when alive, and in whose presence they will begin to be judged in the last times.
88: But of those who have kept the ways of the most High, when they shall begin to be saved from the vessel of corruption, this is the order:
89: While they sojourned in that time, they served the most High with travail, and endured peril every hour, that they might keep the law of the lawgiver perfectly.
90: Wherefore this is the word concerning them:
91: First of all, they see with great exultation the glory of him who taketh them to himself; and they will rest in seven orders.
92: The first order (of rejoicing) is in that they strove with much toil to overcome the evil imagination formed with them, that it might not lead them astray from life unto death.
93: The second, in that they see the entanglement wherein the souls of the ungodly wander, and the punishment that awaiteth them.
94: The third order is in their seeing the testimony which he that formed them hath borne unto them, that in their lifetime they have kept the law which was given them in trust.
95: The fourth is in knowing the rest they will now enjoy, gathered together in their store-chambers, and guarded by the angels in deep repose; and knowing also the glory that awaiteth them at the last.
96: The fifth is in their exulting at the way in which they have now escaped the corruptible, and the way in which they will gain the future inheritance; furthermore, in seeing the strait and toilsome (way) from which they have been freed, and the broad way which they will begin to receive in enjoyment and immortality.
97: The sixth order is, when it shall be shewed unto them how their countenance will begin to shine as the sun, and how they will begin to be made like unto the light of the stars, from henceforth incorruptible.
98: The seventh order, which surpasseth all the aforesaid, is in that they will exult with confidence, and put their trust without being confounded, and rejoice without being afraid; for they hasten to see the face of him whom they serve in life, and from whom they begin to receive their reward in glory.
99: This is the order of the souls of the righteous, as it is now declared; and the aforesaid are the ways of torment, which they that have transgressed will henceforth suffer.
100: And I answered and said, Shall time therefore be given to souls, after they are separated from their bodies, to see that whereof thou hast spoken unto me?
101: And he said, For seven days will their freedom be, that they may see the things before spoken unto thee, and afterwards they will be gathered together in their dwelling places.
102: And I answered and said, If I have found favour before thine eyes, shew yet further unto me thy servant, whether in the day of judgment the righteous will be able to make intercession for the wicked, or to propitiate the most High on their behalf;
103: Be it fathers for children, or children for parents, or brothers for brothers, or relations for those nearest akin to them, or friends for their dearest ones.
104: And he answered me and said, Seeing thou hast found favour before mine eyes, I will shew thee this also. The day of judgment is the day of decision, and will shew to all men the seal of truth. For as now a father sendeth not his son, nor a son his father, nor a master his slave, nor a friend his dearest one, that he may be sick, or may sleep, or eat, or be healed, in his stead;
105: So shall no one ever make supplication for another; for all shall bear in that day, each for himself, their own unrighteousnesses or righteousnesses.
106: Then said I, Abraham prayed first for the Sodomites, and Moses for the fathers that sinned in the wilderness:
107: And Jesus after him for Israel in the time of Achan:
108: And Samuel and David for the destruction: and Solomon for them that should come to the sanctuary:
109: And Helias for those that received rain; and for the dead, that he might live:
110: And Ezechias for the people in the time of Sennacherib: and many for many.
111: Even so now, seeing corruption is grown up, and wickedness increased, and the righteous have prayed for the ungodly: wherefore shall it not be so now also?
112: He answered me, and said, This present life is not the end where much glory doth abide; therefore have they prayed for the weak.
113: But the day of doom shall be the end of this time, and the beginning of the immortality for to come, wherein corruption is past,
114: Intemperance is at an end, infidelity is cut off, righteousness is grown, and truth is sprung up.
115: Then shall no man be able to save him that is destroyed, nor to oppress him that hath gotten the victory.
116: I answered then and said, This is my first and last saying, that it had been better not to have given the earth unto Adam: or else, when it was given him, to have restrained him from sinning.
117: For what profit is it for men now in this present time to live in heaviness, and after death to look for punishment?
118: O thou Adam, what hast thou done? for though it was thou that sinned, thou art not fallen alone, but we all that come of thee.
119: For what profit is it unto us, if there be promised us an immortal time, whereas we have done the works that bring death?
120: And that there is promised us an everlasting hope, whereas ourselves being most wicked are made vain?
121: And that there are laid up for us dwellings of health and safety, whereas we have lived wickedly?
122: And that the glory of the most High is kept to defend them which have led a wary life, whereas we have walked in the most wicked ways of all?
123: And that there should be shewed a paradise, whose fruit endureth for ever, wherein is security and medicine, since we shall not enter into it?
124: (For we have walked in unpleasant places.)
125: And that the faces of them which have used abstinence shall shine above the stars, whereas our faces shall be blacker than darkness?
126: For while we lived and committed iniquity, we considered not that we should begin to suffer for it after death.
127: Then answered he me, and said, This is the condition of the battle, which man that is born upon the earth shall fight;
128: That, if he be overcome, he shall suffer as thou hast said: but if he get the victory, he shall receive the thing that I say.
129: For this is the life whereof Moses spake unto the people while he lived, saying, Choose thee life, that thou mayest live.
130: Nevertheless they believed not him, nor yet the prophets after him, no nor me which have spoken unto them,
131: That there should not be such heaviness in their destruction, as shall be joy over them that are persuaded to salvation.
132: I answered then, and said, I know, Lord, that the most High is called merciful, in that he hath mercy upon them which are not yet come into the world,
133: And upon those also that turn to his law;
134: And that he is patient, and long suffereth those that have sinned, as his creatures;
135: And that he is bountiful, for he is ready to give where it needeth;
136: And that he is of great mercy, for he multiplieth more and more mercies to them that are present, and that are past, and also to them which are to come.
137: For if he shall not multiply his mercies, the world would not continue with them that inherit therein.
138: And he pardoneth; for if he did not do so of his goodness, that they which have committed iniquities might be eased of them, the ten thousandth part of men should not remain living.
139: And being judge, if he should not forgive them that are cured with his word, and put out the multitude of contentions,
140: There should be very few left peradventure in an innumerable multitude.
