1: ¶ And it came to pass at that time that Judas went down from his brethren, and came as far as to a certain man of Odollam, whose name was Iras.
2: And Judas saw there the daughter of a Chananitish man, whose name was Sava; and he took her, and went in to her.
3: And she conceived and bore a son, and called his name, Er.
4: And she conceived and bore a son again; and called his name, Aunan.
5: And she again bore a son; and called his name, Selom: and she was in Chasbi when she bore them.
6: And Judas took a wife for Er his first-born, whose name was Thamar.
7: And Er, the first-born of Judas, was wicked before the Lord; and God killed him.
8: And Judas said to Aunan, Go in to thy brother's wife, and marry her as her brother-in-law, and raise up seed to thy brother.
9: And Aunan, knowing that the seed should not be his—it came to pass when he went in to his brother's wife, that he spilled [it] upon the ground, so that he should not give seed to his brother's wife.
10: And his doing this appeared evil before God; and he slew him also.
11: ¶ And Judas said to Thamar, his daughter-in-law, Sit thou a widow in the house of thy father-in-law, until Selom my son be grown; for he said, lest he also die as his brethren; and Thamar departed, and sat in the house of her father.
12: And the days were fulfilled, and Sava the wife of Judas died; and Judas, being comforted, went to them that sheared his sheep, himself and Iras his shepherd the Odollamite, to Thamna.
13: And it was told Thamar his daughter-in-law, saying, Behold, thy father-in-law goeth up to Thamna, to shear his sheep.
14: And having taken off the garments of her widowhood from her, she put on a veil, and ornamented her face, and sat by the gates of Ænan, which is in the way to Thamna, for she saw that Selom was grown; but he gave her not to him for a wife.
15: And when Judas saw her, he thought her to be a harlot; for she covered her face, and he knew her not.
16: And he went out of his way to her, and said to her, Let me come in to thee; for he knew not that she was his daughter-in-law; and she said, What wilt thou give me if thou shouldest come in to me?
17: And he said, I will send thee a kid of the goats from my flock; and she said, [Well], if thou wilt give me an earnest, until thou send it.
18: And he said, What is the earnest that I shall give thee? and she said, Thy ring, and thy bracelet, and the staff in thy hand; and he gave them to her, and went in to her, and she conceived by him.
19: And she arose and departed, and took her veil from off her, and put on the garments of her widowhood.
20: And Judas sent the kid of the goats by the hand of his shepherd the Odollamite, to receive the pledge from the woman; and he found her not.
21: And he asked the men of the place, Where is the harlot who was in Ænan by the way-side? and they said, There was no harlot here.
22: And he returned to Judas, and said, I have not found her; and the men of the place say, There is no harlot here.
23: And Judas said, Let her have them, but let us not be ridiculed; I sent this kid, but thou hast not found her.
24: And it came to pass after three months, that it was told Judas, saying, Thamar thy daughter-in-law has grievously played the harlot, and behold she is with child by whoredom; and Judas said, Bring her out, and let her be burnt.
25: And as they were bringing her, she sent to her father-in-law, saying, I am with child by the man whose these things are; and she said, See whose is this ring and bracelet and staff.
26: And Judas knew [them], and said, Thamar is cleared rather than I, forasmuch as I gave her not to Selom my son: and he knew her not again.
27: And it came to pass when she was in labour, that she also had twins in her womb.
28: And it came to pass as she was bringing forth, one thrust forth his hand, and the midwife having taken hold of it, bound upon his hand a scarlet [thread], saying, This one shall come out first.
29: And when he drew back his hand, then immediately came forth his brother; and she said, Why has the barrier been cut through because of thee? and she called his name, Phares.
30: And after this came forth his brother, on whose hand was the scarlet thread; and she called his name, Zara.
