1: ¶ And Adam knew Eve his wife, and she conceived and brought forth Cain and said, I have gained a man through God.
2: And she again bore his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground.
3: And it was so after some time that Cain brought of the fruits of the earth a sacrifice to the Lord.
4: And Abel also brought of the firstborn of his sheep and of his fatlings, and God looked upon Abel and his gifts,
5: but Cain and his sacrifices he regarded not, and Cain was exceedingly sorrowful and his countenance fell.
6: And the Lord God said to Cain, Why art thou become very sorrowful and why is thy countenance fallen?
7: Hast thou not sinned if thou hast brought it rightly, but not rightly divided it? be still, to thee shall be his submission, and thou shalt rule over him.
8: ¶ And Cain said to Abel his brother, Let us go out into the plain; and it came to pass that when they were in the plain Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and slew him.
9: And the Lord God said to Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? and he said, I know not, am I my brother's keeper?
10: And the Lord said, What hast thou done? the voice of thy brother's blood cries to me out of the ground.
11: And now thou [art] cursed from the earth which has opened her mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand.
12: When thou tillest the earth, then it shall not continue to give its strength to thee: thou shalt be groaning and trembling on the earth.
13: And Cain said to the Lord God, My crime [is] too great for me to be forgiven.
14: If thou castest me out this day from the face of the earth, and I shall be hidden from thy presence, and I shall be groaning and trembling upon the earth, then it will be that any one that finds me shall slay me.
15: And the Lord God said to him, Not so, any one that slays Cain shall suffer seven-fold vengeance; and the Lord God set a mark upon Cain that no one that found him might slay him.
16: So Cain went forth from the presence of God and dwelt in the land of Nod over against Edem.
17: ¶ And Cain knew his wife, and having conceived she bore Enoch; and he built a city; and he named the city after the name of his son, Enoch.
18: And to Enoch was born Gaidad; and Gaidad begot Maleleel; and Maleleel begot Mathusala; and Mathusala begot Lamech.
19: And Lamech took to himself two wives; the name of the one was Ada, and the name of the second Sella.
20: And Ada bore Jobel; he was the father of those that dwell in tents, feeding cattle.
21: And the name of his brother was Jubal; he it was who invented the psaltery and harp.
22: And Sella also bore Thobel; he was a smith, a manufacturer both of brass and iron; and the sister of Thobel was Noëma.
23: And Lamech said to his wives, Ada and Sella, Hear my voice, ye wives of Lamech, consider my words, because I have slain a man to my sorrow and a youth to my grief.
24: Because vengeance has been exacted seven times on Cain's behalf, on Lamech's [it shall be] seventy times seven.
25: ¶ And Adam knew Eve his wife, and she conceived and bore a son, and called his name Seth, saying, For God has raised up to me another seed instead of Abel, whom Cain slew.
26: And Seth had a son, and he called his name Enos: he hoped to call on the name of the Lord God.
