1: ¶ And Israel departed, he and all that he had, and came to the well of the oath; and he offered sacrifice to the God of his father Isaac.
2: And God spoke to Israel in a night vision, saying, Jacob, Jacob; and he said, What is it?
3: And he says to him, I am the God of thy fathers; fear not to go down into Egypt, for I will make thee there a great nation.
4: And I will go down with thee into Egypt, and I will bring thee up at the end; and Joseph shall put his hands on thine eyes.
5: And Jacob rose up from the well of the oath; and the sons of Israel took up their father, and the baggage, and their wives on the waggons, which Joseph sent to take them.
6: And they took up their goods, and all their property, which they had gotten in the land of Chanaan; they came into the land of Egypt, Jacob, and all his seed with him.
7: The sons, and the sons of his sons with him; [his] daughters, and the daughters of his daughters; and he brought all his seed into Egypt.
8: And these are the names of the sons of Israel that went into Egypt with their father Jacob—Jacob and his sons. The first-born of Jacob, Ruben.
9: And the sons of Ruben; Enoch, and Phallus, Asron, and Charmi.
10: And the sons of Symeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Aod, and Achin, and Saar, and Saul, the son of a Chananitish woman.
11: And the sons of Levi; Gerson, Cath, and Merari.
12: And the sons of Judas; Er, and Aunan, and Selom, and Phares, and Zara: and Er and Aunan died in the land of Chanaan.
13: And the sons of Phares [were] Esron, and Jemuel. And the sons of Issachar; Thola, and Phua, and Asum, and Sambran.
14: And the sons of Zabulun, Sered, and Allon, and Achoel.
15: These [are] the sons of Lea, which she bore to Jacob in Mesopotamia of Syria, and Dina his daughter; all the souls, sons and daughters, thirty-three.
16: And the sons of Gad; Saphon, and Angis, and Sannis, and Thasoban, and Aedis, and Aroedis, and Areelis.
17: And the sons of Aser; Jemna, Jessua, and Jeul, and Baria, and Sara their sister. And the sons of Baria; Chobor, and Melchiil.
18: These [are] the sons of Zelpha, which Laban gave to his daughter Lea, who bore these to Jacob, sixteen souls.
19: And the sons of Rachel, the wife of Jacob; Joseph, and Benjamin.
20: And there were sons born to Joseph in the land of Egypt, whom Aseneth, the daughter of Petephres, priest of Heliopolis, bore to him, [even] Manasses and Ephraim. And there were sons born to Manasses, which the Syrian concubine bore to him, [even] Machir. And Machir begot Galaad. And the sons of Ephraim, the brother of Manasses; Sutalaam, and Taam. And the sons of Sutalaam; Edom.
21: And the sons of Benjamin; Bala, and Bochor, and Asbel. And the sons of Bala were Gera, and Noeman, and Anchis, and Ros, and Mamphim. And Gera begot Arad.
22: These [are] the sons of Rachel, which she bore to Jacob; all the souls eighteen.
23: And the sons of Dan; Asom.
24: And the sons of Nephthalim; Asiel, and Goni, and Issaar, and Sollem.
25: These [are] the sons of Balla, whom Laban gave to his daughter Rachel, who bore these to Jacob; all the souls, seven.
26: And all the souls that came with Jacob into Egypt, who came out of his loins, besides the wives of the sons of Jacob, [even] all the souls were sixty-six.
27: And the sons of Joseph, who were born to him in the land of Egypt, were nine souls; all the souls of the house of Jacob who came with Joseph into Egypt, were seventy-five souls.
28: ¶ And he sent Judas before him to Joseph, to meet him to the city of Heroes, into the land of Ramesses.
29: And Joseph having made ready his chariots, went up to meet Israel his father, at the city of Heroes; and having appeared to him, fell on his neck, and wept with abundant weeping.
30: And Israel said to Joseph, After this I will [gladly] die, since I have seen thy face, for thou art yet living.
31: And Joseph said to his brethren, I will go up and tell Pharao, and will say to him, My brethren, and my father's house, who were in the land of Chanaan, are come to me.
32: And the men are shepherds; for they have been feeders of cattle, and they have brought with them their cattle, and their kine, and all their property.
33: If then Pharao call you, and say to you, What is your occupation?
34: Ye shall say, We thy servants are herdsmen from our youth until now, both we and our fathers: that ye may dwell in the land of Gesem of Arabia, for every shepherd is an abomination to the Egyptians.
