1: ¶ This [is] the genealogy of men in the day in which God made Adam; in the image of God he made him:
2: male and female he made them, and blessed them; and he called his name Adam, in the day in which he made them.
3: And Adam lived two hundred and thirty years, and begot [a son] after his [own] form, and after his [own] image, and he called his name Seth.
4: And the days of Adam, which he lived after his begetting Seth, were seven hundred years; and he begot sons and daughters.
5: And all the days of Adam which he lived were nine hundred and thirty years, and he died.
6: Now Seth lived two hundred and five years, and begot Enos.
7: And Seth lived after his begetting Enos, seven hundred and seven years, and he begot sons and daughters.
8: And all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years, and he died.
9: And Enos lived an hundred and ninety years, and begot Cainan.
10: And Enos lived after his begetting Cainan, seven hundred and fifteen years, and he begot sons and daughters.
11: And all the days of Enos were nine hundred and five years, and he died.
12: And Cainan lived an hundred and seventy years, and he begot Maleleel.
13: And Cainan lived after his begetting Maleleel, seven hundred and forty years, and he begot sons and daughters.
14: And all the days of Cainan were nine hundred and ten years, and he died.
15: ¶ And Maleleel lived an hundred and sixty and five years, and he begot Jared.
16: And Maleleel lived after his begetting Jared, seven hundred and thirty years, and he begot sons and daughters.
17: And all the days of Maleleel were eight hundred and ninety and five years, and he died.
18: And Jared lived an hundred and sixty and two years, and begot Enoch:
19: and Jared lived after his begetting Enoch, eight hundred years, and he begot sons and daughters.
20: And all the days of Jared were nine hundred and sixty and two years, and he died.
21: And Enoch lived an hundred and sixty and five years, and begat Mathusala.
22: And Enoch was well-pleasing to God after his begetting Mathusala, two hundred years, and he begot sons and daughters.
23: And all the days of Enoch were three hundred and sixty and five years.
24: And Enoch was well-pleasing to God, and was not found, because God translated him.
25: And Mathusala lived an hundred and sixty and seven years, and begot Lamech.
26: And Mathusala lived after his begetting Lamech eight hundred and two years, and begot sons and daughters.
27: And all the days of Mathusala which he lived, were nine hundred and sixty and nine years, and he died.
28: And Lamech lived an hundred and eighty and eight years, and begot a son.
29: And he called his name Noe, saying, This one will cause us to cease from our works, and from the toils of our hands, and from the earth, which the Lord God has cursed.
30: And Lamech lived after his begetting Noe, five hundred and sixty and five years, and begot sons and daughters.
31: And all the days of Lamech were seven hundred and fifty-three years, and he died.
