1: ¶ And Joseph fell upon his father's face, and wept on him, and kissed him.
2: And Joseph commanded his servants the embalmers to embalm his father; and the embalmers embalmed Israel.
3: And they fulfilled forty days for him, for so are the days of embalming numbered; and Egypt mourned for him seventy days.
4: And when the days of mourning were past, Joseph spoke to the princes of Pharao, saying, If I have found favour in your sight, speak concerning me in the ears of Pharao, saying,
5: My father adjured me, saying, In the sepulchre which I dug for myself in the land of Chanaan, there thou shalt bury me; now then I will go up and bury my father, and return again.
6: And Pharao said to Joseph, Go up, bury thy father, as he constrained thee to swear.
7: So Joseph went up to bury his father; and all the servants of Pharao went up with him, and the elders of his house, and all the elders of the land of Egypt.
8: And all the household of Joseph, and his brethren, and all the house of his father, and his kindred; and they left behind the sheep and the oxen in the land of Gesem.
9: And there went up with him also chariots and horsemen; and there was a very great company.
10: And they came to the threshing-floor of Atad, which is beyond Jordan; and they bewailed him with a great and very sore lamentation; and he made a mourning for his father seven days.
11: And the inhabitants of the land of Chanaan saw the mourning at the floor of Atad, and said, This is a great mourning to the Egyptians; therefore he called its name, The mourning of Egypt, which is beyond Jordan.
12: And thus his sons did to him.
13: So his sons carried him up into the land of Chanaan, and buried him in the double cave, which cave Abraam bought for possession of a burying place, of Ephrom the Chettite, before Mambre.
14: And Joseph returned to Egypt, he and his brethren, and those that had gone up with him to bury his father.
15: ¶ And when the brethren of Joseph saw that their father was dead, they said, [Let us take heed], lest at any time Joseph remember evil against us, and recompense to us all the evils which we have done against him.
16: And they came to Joseph, and said, Thy father adjured [us] before his death, saying,
17: Thus say ye to Joseph, Forgive them their injustice and their sin, forasmuch as they have done thee evil; and now pardon the injustice of the servants of the God of thy father. And Joseph wept while they spoke to him.
18: And they came to him and said, We, these [persons], are thy servants.
19: And Joseph said to them, Fear not, for I am God's.
20: Ye took counsel against me for evil, but God took counsel for me for good, that [the matter] might be as [it is] to-day, and much people might be fed.
21: And he said to them, Fear not, I will maintain you, and your families: and he comforted them, and spoke kindly to them.
22: And Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he and his brethren, and all the family of his father; and Joseph lived a hundred and ten years.
23: And Joseph saw the children of Ephraim to the third generation; and the sons of Machir the son of Manasse were borne on the sides of Joseph.
24: And Joseph spoke to his brethren, saying, I die, and God will surely visit you, and will bring you out of this land to the land concerning which God sware to our fathers, Abraam, Isaac, and Jacob.
25: And Joseph adjured the sons of Israel, saying, At the visitation with which God shall visit you, then ye shall carry up my bones hence with you.
26: And Joseph died, aged an hundred and ten years; and they prepared his corpse, and put him in a coffin in Egypt.
