1: ¶ And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
2: Speak to the children of Israel, and thou shalt say to them, I [am] the Lord your God.
3: Ye shall not do according to the devices of Egypt, in which ye dwelt: and according to the devices of the land of Chanaan, into which I bring you, ye shall not do; and ye shall not walk in their ordinances.
4: Ye shall observe my judgments, and shall keep my ordinances, and shall walk in them: I [am] the Lord your God.
5: So ye shall keep all my ordinances, and all my judgments, and do them; which if a man do, he shall live in them: I [am] the Lord your God.
6: No man shall draw nigh to any of his near kindred to uncover their nakedness; I [am] the Lord.
7: Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy father, or the nakedness of thy mother, for she is thy mother; thou shalt not uncover her nakedness.
8: Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy father's wife; it is thy father's nakedness.
9: The nakedness of thy sister by thy father or by thy mother, born at home or abroad, their nakedness thou shalt not uncover.
10: The nakedness of thy son's daughter, or thy daughter's daughter, their nakedness thou shalt not uncover; because it is thy nakedness.
11: Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of the daughter of thy father's wife; she is thy sister by the same father: thou shalt not uncover her nakedness.
12: Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy father's sister, for she is near akin to thy father.
13: Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy mother's sister, for she is near akin to thy mother.
14: Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy father's brother, and thou shalt not go in to his wife; for she is thy relation.
15: Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy daughter-in-law, for she is thy son's wife, thou shalt not uncover her nakedness.
16: Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy brother's wife: it is thy brother's nakedness.
17: The nakedness of a woman and her daughter shalt thou not uncover; her son's daughter, and her daughter's daughter, shalt thou not take, to uncover their nakedness, for they are thy kinswomen: it is impiety.
18: Thou shalt not take a wife in addition to her sister, as a rival, to uncover her nakedness in opposition to her, while she is yet living.
19: ¶ And thou shalt not go in to a woman under separation for her uncleanness, to uncover her nakedness.
20: And thou shalt not lie with thy neighbour's wife, to defile thyself with her.
21: And thou shalt not give of thy seed to serve a ruler; and thou shalt not profane my holy name; I [am] the Lord.
22: And thou shalt not lie with a man as with a woman, for it is an abomination.
23: Neither shalt thou lie with any quadruped for copulation, to be polluted with it: neither shall a woman present herself before any quadruped to have connexion with it; for it is an abomination.
24: Do not defile yourselves with any of these things; for in all these things the nations are defiled, which I drive out before you,
25: and the land is polluted; and I have recompensed their iniquity to them because of it, and the land is aggrieved with them that dwell upon it.
26: And ye shall keep all my statutes and all my ordinances, and ye shall do none of these abominations; neither the native, nor the stranger that joins himself with you:
27: (for all these abominations the men of the land did who were before you, and the land was defiled,)
28: and lest the land be aggrieved with you in your polluting it, as it was aggrieved with the nations before you.
29: For whosoever shall do any of these abominations, the souls that do them shall be destroyed from among their people.
30: And ye shall keep mine ordinances, that ye may not do any of the abominable practices, which have taken place before your time: and ye shall not be polluted in them; for I [am] the Lord your God.
