1: ¶ And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
2: Speak to Aaron and to his sons, and let them take heed concerning the holy things of the children of Israel, so they shall not profane my holy name in any of the things which they consecrate to me: I [am] the Lord.
3: Say to them, Every man throughout your generations, whoever of all your seed shall approach to the holy things, whatsoever the children of Israel shall consecrate to the Lord, while his uncleanness is upon him, that soul shall be cut off from me: I [am] the Lord your God.
4: And the man of the seed of Aaron the priest, if he should have leprosy or issue of the reins, shall not eat of the holy things, until he be cleansed; and he that touches any uncleanness of a dead body, or the man whose seed of copulation shall have gone out from him,
5: or whosoever shall touch any unclean reptile, which will defile him, or [who shall touch] a man, whereby he shall defile him according to all his uncleanness:
6: whatsoever soul shall touch them shall be unclean until evening; he shall not eat of the holy things, unless he bathe his body in water,
7: and the sun go down, and then he shall be clean; and then shall he eat of all the holy things, for they are his bread.
8: He shall not eat that which dies of itself, or is taken of beasts, so that he should be polluted by them: I [am] the Lord.
9: And they shall keep my ordinances, that they do not bear iniquity because of them, and die because of them, if they shall profane them: I [am] the Lord God that sanctifies them.
10: And no stranger shall eat the holy things: one that sojourns with a priest, or a hireling, shall not eat the holy things.
11: But if a priest should have a soul purchased for money, he shall eat of his bread; and they that are born in his house, they also shall eat of his bread.
12: And if the daughter of a priest should marry a stranger, she shall not eat of the offerings of the sanctuary.
13: And if the daughter of a priest should be a widow, or put away, and have no seed, she shall return to her father's house, as in her youth: she shall eat of her father's bread, but no stranger shall eat of it.
14: And the man who shall ignorantly eat holy things, shall add the fifth part to it, and give the holy thing to the priest.
15: And they shall not profane the holy things of the children of Israel, which they offer to the Lord.
16: So should they bring upon themselves the iniquity of trespass in their eating their holy things: for I [am] the Lord that sanctifies them.
17: ¶ And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
18: Speak to Aaron and his sons, and to all the congregation of Israel, and thou shalt say to them, Any man of the children of Israel, or of the strangers that abide among them in Israel, who shall offer his gifts according to all their confession and according to all their choice, whatsoever they may bring to the Lord for whole-burnt-offerings—
19: your free-will-offerings [shall] be males without blemish of the herds, or of the sheep, or of the goats.
20: They shall not bring to the Lord anything that has a blemish in it, for it shall not be acceptable for you.
21: And whatsoever man shall offer a peace-offering to the Lord, discharging a vow, or in the way of free-will-offering, or an offering in your feasts, of the herds or of the sheep, it shall be without blemish for acceptance: there shall be no blemish in it.
22: One that is blind, or broken, or has its tongue cut out, or is troubled with warts, or has a malignant ulcer, or tetters, they shall not offer these to the Lord; neither shall ye offer any of them for a burnt-offering on the altar of the Lord.
23: And a calf or a sheep with the ears cut off, or that has lost its tail, thou shalt slay them for thyself; but they shall not be accepted for thy vow.
24: That which has broken testicles, or is crushed or gelt or mutilated, —thou shalt not offer them to the Lord, neither shall ye sacrifice them upon your land.
25: Neither shall ye offer the gifts of your God of all these things by the hand of a stranger, because there is corruption in them, a blemish in them: these shall not be accepted for you.
26: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
27: As for a calf, or a sheep, or a goat, whenever it is born, then shall it be seven days under its mother; and on the eighth day and after they shall be accepted for sacrifices, a burnt-offering to the Lord.
28: And a bullock and a ewe, it and its young, thou shalt not kill in one day.
29: ¶ And if thou shouldest offer a sacrifice, a vow of rejoicing to the Lord, ye shall offer it so as to be accepted for you.
30: In that same day it shall be eaten; ye shall not leave of the flesh till the morrow: I am the Lord.
31: And ye shall keep my commandments and do them.
32: And ye shall not profane the name of the Holy One, and I will be sanctified in the midst of the children of Israel. I [am] the Lord that sanctifies you,
33: who brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I [am] the Lord.
