1: ¶ And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
2: Charge the children of Israel, and let them take for thee pure olive oil beaten for the light, to burn a lamp continually,
3: outside the veil in the tabernacle of witness; and Aaron and his sons shall burn it from evening until morning before the Lord continually, a perpetual statute throughout your generations.
4: Ye shall burn the lamps on the pure lamp-stand before the Lord till the morrow.
5: And ye shall take fine flour, and make of it twelve loaves; each loaf shall be of two tenth parts.
6: And ye shall put them [in] two rows, each row [containing] six loaves, on the pure table before the Lord.
7: And ye shall put on [each] row pure frankincense and salt; and [these things] shall be for loaves for a memorial, set forth before the Lord.
8: On the sabbath-day they shall be set forth before the Lord continually before the children of Israel, for an everlasting covenant.
9: And they shall be for Aaron and his sons, and they shall eat them in the holy place: for this is their most holy portion of the offerings made to the Lord, a perpetual statute.
10: ¶ And there went forth a son of an Israelitish woman, and he was son of an Egyptian man among the sons of Israel; and they fought in the camp, the son of the Israelitish woman, and a man who was an Israelite.
11: And the son of the Israelitish woman named THE NAME and cursed; and they brought him to Moses: and his mother's name was Salomith, daughter of Dabri of the tribe of Dan.
12: And they put him in ward, to judge him by the command of the Lord.
13: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
14: Bring forth him that cursed outside the camp, and all who heard shall lay their hands upon his head, and all the congregation shall stone him.
15: And speak to the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say to them, Whosoever shall curse God shall bear his sin.
16: And he that names the name of the Lord, let him die the death: let all the congregation of Israel stone him with stones; whether he be a stranger or a native, let him die for naming the name of the Lord.
17: And whosoever shall smite a man and he die, let him die the death.
18: And whosoever shall smite a beast, and it shall die, let him render life for life.
19: And whosoever shall inflict a blemish on his neighbour, as he has done to him, so shall it be done to himself in return;
20: bruise for bruise, eye for eye, tooth for tooth: as any one may inflict a blemish on a man, so shall it be rendered to him.
21: Whosoever shall smite a man, and he shall die, let him die the death.
22: There shall be one judgment for the stranger and the native, for I [am] the Lord your God.
23: And Moses spoke to the children of Israel, and they brought him that had cursed out of the camp, and stoned him with stones: and the children of Israel did as the Lord commanded Moses.
