1: ¶ And it came to pass on the eighth day, that Moses called Aaron and his sons, and the elders of Israel,
2: and Moses said to Aaron, Take to thyself a young calf of the herd for a sin-offering, and a ram for a whole-burnt-offering, unblemished, and offer them before the Lord.
3: And speak to the elders of Israel, saying, Take one kid of the goats for a sin-offering, and a young calf, and a lamb of a year old for a whole-burnt-offering, spotless,
4: and a calf and a ram for a peace offering before the Lord, and fine flour mingled with oil, for to-day the Lord will appear among you.
5: And they took as Moses commanded them before the tabernacle of witness, and all the congregation drew nigh, and they stood before the Lord.
6: And Moses said, This is the thing which the Lord has spoken; do [it], and the glory of the Lord shall appear among you.
7: And Moses said to Aaron, Draw nigh to the altar, and offer thy sin-offering, and thy whole-burnt-offering, and make atonement for thyself, and for thy house; and offer the gifts of the people, and make atonement for them, as the Lord commanded Moses.
8: And Aaron drew nigh to the altar, and slew the calf of his sin-offering.
9: And the sons of Aaron brought the blood to him, and he dipped his finger into the blood, and put it on the horns of the altar, and he poured out the blood at the bottom of the altar.
10: And he offered up on the altar the fat and the kidneys and the lobe of the liver of the sin-offering, according as the Lord commanded Moses.
11: And the flesh and the hide he burnt with fire outside of the camp.
12: And he slew the whole-burnt-offering; and the sons of Aaron brought the blood to him, and he poured it on the altar round about.
13: And they brought the whole-burnt-offering, according to its pieces; them and the head he put upon the altar.
14: And he washed the belly and the feet with water, and he put them on the whole-burnt-offering on the altar.
15: ¶ And he brought the gift of the people, and took the goat of the sin-offering of the people, and slew it, and purified it as also the first.
16: And he brought the whole-burnt-offering, and offered it in due form.
17: And he brought the sacrifice and filled his hands with it, and laid it on the altar, besides the morning whole-burnt-offering.
18: And he slew the calf, and the ram of the sacrifice of peace-offering of the people; and the sons of Aaron brought the blood to him, and he poured it out on the altar round about.
19: And [he took] the fat of the calf, and the hind quarters of the ram, and the fat covering the belly, and the two kidneys, and the fat upon them, and the caul on the liver.
20: And he put the fat on the breasts, and offered the fat on the altar.
21: And Aaron separated the breast and the right shoulder as a choice-offering before the Lord, as the Lord commanded Moses.
22: And Aaron lifted up his hands on the people and blessed them; and after he had offered the sin-offering, and the whole-burnt-offerings, and the peace-offerings, he came down.
23: And Moses and Aaron entered into the tabernacle of witness. And they came out and blessed all the people, and the glory of the Lord appeared to all the people.
24: And fire came forth from the Lord, and devoured the offerings on the altar, both the whole-burnt-offerings and the fat; and all the people saw, and were amazed, and fell upon their faces.
