1: ¶ And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
2: Make to thyself two silver trumpets: thou shalt make them of beaten work; and they shall be to thee for the purpose of calling the assembly, and of removing the camps.
3: And thou shalt sound with them, and all the congregation shall be gathered to the door of the tabernacle of witness.
4: And if they shall sound with one, all the rulers even the princes of Israel shall come to thee.
5: And ye shall sound an alarm, and the camps pitched eastward shall begin to move.
6: And ye shall sound a second alarm, and the camps pitched southward shall move; and ye shall sound a third alarm, and the camps pitched westward shall move forward; and ye shall sound a fourth alarm, and they that encamp toward the north shall move forward: they shall sound an alarm at their departure.
7: And whenever ye shall gather the assembly, ye shall sound, but not an alarm.
8: And the priests the sons of Aaron shall sound with the trumpets; and it shall be a perpetual ordinance for you throughout your generations.
9: And if ye shall go forth to war in your land against your enemies that are opposed to you, then shall ye sound with the trumpets; and ye shall be had in remembrance before the Lord, and ye shall be saved from your enemies.
10: And in the days of your gladness, and in your feasts, and in your new moons, ye shall sound with the trumpets at your whole-burnt-offerings, and at the sacrifices of your peace-offerings; and there shall be a memorial for you before your God: I [am] the Lord your God.
11: ¶ And it came to pass in the second year, in the second month, on the twentieth day of the month, the cloud went up from the tabernacle of witness.
12: And the children of Israel set forward with their baggage in the wilderness of Sina; and the cloud rested in the wilderness of Pharan.
13: And the first rank departed by the word of the Lord by the hand of Moses.
14: ¶ And they first set in motion the order of the camp of the children of Juda with their host; and over their host [was] Naasson, son of Aminadab.
15: And over the host of the tribe of the sons of Issachar, [was] Nathanael son of Sogar.
16: And over the host of the tribe of the sons of Zabulon, [was] Eliab the son of Chælon.
17: And they shall take down the tabernacle, and the sons of Gedson shall set forward, and the sons of Merari, who bear the tabernacle.
18: ¶ And the order of the camp of Ruben set forward with their host; and over their host [was] Elisur the son of Sediur.
19: And over the host of the tribe of the sons of Symeon, [was] Salamiel son of Surisadai.
20: And over the host of the tribe of the children of Gad, [was] Elisaph the son of Raguel.
21: And the sons of Caath shall set forward bearing the holy things, and [the others] shall set up the tabernacle until they arrive.
22: And the order of the camp of Ephraim shall set forward with their forces; and over their forces [was] Elisama the son of Semiud.
23: ¶ And over the forces of the tribe of the sons of Manasse, [was] Gamaliel the [son] of Phadassur.
24: And over the forces of the tribe of the children of Benjamin, [was] Abidan the [son] of Gadeoni.
25: And the order of the camp of the sons of Dan shall set forward the last of all the camps, with their forces: and over their forces [was] Achiezer the [son] of Amisadai.
26: And over the forces of the tribe of the sons of Aser, [was] Phageel the son of Echran.
27: And over the forces of the tribe of the sons of Nephthali, [was] Achire the son of Ænan.
28: These [are] the armies of the children of Israel; and they set forward with their forces.
29: ¶ And Moses said to Obab the son of Raguel the Madianite, the father-in-law of Moses, We are going forward to the place concerning which the Lord said, This will I give to you: Come with us, and we will do thee good, for the Lord has spoken good concerning Israel.
30: And he said to him, I will not go, but [I will go] to my land and to my kindred.
31: And he said, Leave us not, because thou hast been with us in the wilderness, and thou shalt be an elder among us.
32: And it shall come to pass if thou wilt go with us, it shall even come to pass that in whatsoever things the Lord shall do us good, we will also do thee good.
33: ¶ And they departed from the mount of the Lord a three days' journey; and the ark of the covenant of the Lord went before them a three days' journey to provide rest for them.
35: And it came to pass when the ark set forward, that Moses said, Arise, O Lord, and let thine enemies be scattered: let all that hate thee flee.
36: And in the resting he said, Turn again, O Lord, the thousands [and] tens of thousands in Israel.
34: And the cloud overshadowed them by day, when they departed from the camp.
