1: ¶ And Israel sojourned in Sattin, and the people profaned itself by going a-whoring after the daughters of Moab.
2: And they called them to the sacrifices of their idols; and the people ate of their sacrifices, and worshipped their idols.
3: And Israel consecrated themselves to Beel-phegor; and the Lord was very angry with Israel.
4: And the Lord said to Moses, Take all the princes of the people, and make them examples [of judgment] for the Lord in the face of the sun, and the anger of the Lord shall be turned away from Israel.
5: And Moses said to the tribes of Israel, Slay ye every one his friend that is consecrated to Beel-phegor.
6: And, behold, a man of the children of Israel came and brought his brother to a Madianitish woman before Moses, and before all the congregation of the children of Israel; and they were weeping at the door of the tabernacle of witness.
7: And Phinees the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, saw it, and rose out of the midst of the congregation, and took a javelin in his hand,
8: and went in after the Israelitish man into the chamber, and pierced them both through, both the Israelitish man, and the woman through her womb; and the plague was stayed from the children of Israel.
9: And those that died in the plague were four and twenty thousand.
10: ¶ And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
11: Phinees the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest has caused my wrath to cease from the children of Israel, when I was exceedingly jealous among them, and I did not consume the children of Israel in my jealousy.
12: Thus do thou say [to him], Behold, I give him a covenant of peace:
13: and he and his seed after him shall have a perpetual covenant of priesthood, because he was zealous for his God, and made atonement for the children of Israel.
14: Now the name of the smitten Israelitish man, who was smitten with the Madianitish woman, [was] Zambri son of Salmon, prince of a house of the tribe of Symeon.
15: And the name of the Madianitish woman who was smitten, [was] Chasbi, daughter of Sur, a prince of the nation of Ommoth: it is a chief house among the people of Madiam.
16: ¶ And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to the children of Israel, saying,
17: Plague the Madianites as enemies, and smite them,
18: for they are enemies to you by the treachery wherein they ensnare you through Phogor, and through Chasbi their sister, daughter of a prince of Madiam, who was smitten in the day of the plague because of Phogor.
