1: ¶ And in the seventh month, on the first day of the month, there shall be to you a holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work: it shall be to you a day of blowing the trumpets.
2: And ye shall offer whole-burnt-offerings for a sweet savour to the Lord, one calf of the herd, one ram, seven lambs of a year old without blemish.
3: Their meat-offering shall be fine flour mingled with oil; three tenth deals for one calf, and two tenth deals for one ram:
4: a tenth deal for each several ram, for the seven lambs.
5: And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering, to make atonement for you.
6: Beside the whole-burnt-offerings for the new moon, and their meat-offerings, and their drink-offerings, and their perpetual whole-burnt-offering; and their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings according to their ordinance for a sweet-smelling savour to the Lord.
7: ¶ And on the tenth of this month there shall be to you a holy convocation; and ye shall afflict your souls, and ye shall do no work.
8: And ye shall bring near whole-burnt-offerings for a sweet-smelling savour to the Lord; burnt-sacrifices to the Lord, one calf of the herd, one ram, seven lambs of a year old; they shall be to you without blemish.
9: Their meat-offering shall be fine flour mingled with oil; three tenth deals for one calf, and two tenth deals for one ram.
10: A tenth deal for each several lamb, for the seven lambs.
11: And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering, to make atonement for you; beside the sin-offering for atonement, and the continual whole-burnt-offering, its meat-offering, and its drink-offering according to its ordinance for a smell of sweet savour, a burnt-sacrifice to the Lord.
12: ¶ And on the fifteenth day of this seventh month ye shall have a holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work; and ye shall keep it a feast to the Lord seven days.
13: And ye shall bring near whole-burnt-offerings, a sacrifice for a smell of sweet savour to the Lord, on the first day thirteen calves of the herd, two rams, fourteen lambs of a year old; they shall be without blemish.
14: Their meat-offerings [shall be] fine flour mingled with oil; there shall be three tenth deals for one calf, for the thirteen calves; and two tenth deals for one ram, for the two rams.
15: A tenth deal for every lamb, for the fourteen lambs.
16: And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the continual whole-burnt-offering: there shall be their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings.
17: ¶ And on the second day twelve calves, two rams, fourteen lambs of a year old without blemish.
18: Their meat-offering and their drink-offering shall be for the calves and the rams and the lambs according to their number, according to their ordinance.
19: And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the perpetual whole-burnt-offering; their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings.
20: ¶ On the third day eleven calves, two rams, fourteen lambs of a year old without blemish.
21: Their meat-offering and their drink-offering shall be to the calves and to the rams and to the lambs according to their number, according to their ordinance.
22: And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the continual whole-burnt-offering; [there shall be] their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings.
23: ¶ On the fourth day ten calves, two rams, fourteen lambs of a year old without spot.
24: There shall be their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings to the calves and the rams and the lambs according to their number, according to their ordinance.
25: And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the continual whole-burnt-offering [there shall be] their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings.
26: ¶ On the fifth day nine calves, two rams, fourteen lambs of a year old without spot.
27: Their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings [shall be] to the calves and the rams and the lambs according to their number, according to their ordinance.
28: And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the perpetual whole-burnt-offering; [there shall be] their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings.
29: ¶ On the sixth day eight calves, two rams, fourteen lambs of a year old without blemish.
30: There shall be their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings to the calves and rams and lambs according to their number, according to their ordinance.
31: And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the perpetual whole-burnt-offering; [there shall be] their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings.
32: ¶ On the seventh day seven calves, two rams, fourteen lambs of a year old without blemish.
33: Their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings shall be to the calves and the rams and the lambs according to their number, according to their ordinance.
34: And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the continual whole-burnt-offering; [there shall be] their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings.
35: And on the eighth day there shall be to you a release: ye shall do no servile work in it.
36: And ye shall offer whole-burnt-offerings [as] sacrifices to the Lord, one calf, one ram, seven lambs of a year old without spot.
37: [There shall be] their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings for the calf and the ram and the lambs according to their number, according to their ordinance.
38: And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering; beside the continual whole-burnt-offering; [there shall be] their meat-offerings and their drink-offerings.
39: ¶ These [sacrifices] shall ye offer to the Lord in your feasts, besides your vows; and [ye shall offer] your free-will-offerings and your whole-burnt-offerings, and your meat-offerings and your drink-offerings, and your peace-offerings.
