1: ¶ And it came to pass in the day in which Moses finished the setting-up of the tabernacle, that he anointed it, and consecrated it, and all its furniture, and the altar and all its furniture, he even anointed them, and consecrated them.
2: And the princes of Israel brought [gifts], twelve princes of their fathers' houses: these were the heads of tribes, these are they that presided over the numbering.
3: And they brought their gift before the Lord, six covered waggons, and twelve oxen; a waggon from two princes, and a calf from each: and they brought them before the tabernacle.
4: And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
5: Take of them, and they shall be for the works of the services of the tabernacle of witness: and thou shalt give them to the Levites, to each one according to his ministration.
6: And Moses took the waggons and the oxen, and gave them to the Levites.
7: And he gave two waggons and four oxen to the sons of Gedson, according to their ministrations.
8: And four waggons and eight oxen he gave to the sons of Merari according to their ministrations, by Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.
9: But to the sons of Caath he gave them not, because they have the ministrations of the sacred things: they shall bear them on their shoulders.
10: ¶ And the rulers brought [gifts] for the dedication of the altar, in the day in which he anointed it, and the rulers brought their gifts before the altar.
11: And the Lord said to Moses, One chief each day, they shall offer their gifts a chief each day for the dedication of the altar.
12: ¶ And he that offered his gift on the first day, was Naasson the son of Aminadab, prince of the tribe of Juda.
13: And he brought his gift, one silver charger of a hundred and thirty shekels was its weight, one silver bowl, of seventy shekels according to the holy shekel; both full of fine flour kneaded with oil for a meat-offering.
14: One golden censer of ten shekels full of incense.
15: One calf of the herd, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole-burnt-offering;
16: and one kid of the goats for a sin-offering.
17: And for a sacrifice of peace-offering, two heifers, five rams, five he goats, five ewe-lambs of a year old: this [was] the gift of Naasson the son of Aminadab.
18: ¶ On the second day Nathanael son of Sogar, the prince of the tribe of Issachar, brought [his offering].
19: And he brought his gift, one silver charger, its weight a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels according to the holy shekel; both full of fine flour kneaded with oil for a meat-offering.
20: One censer of ten golden shekels, full of incense.
21: One calf of the herd, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole-burnt-offering,
22: and one kid of the goats for a sin-offering.
23: And for a sacrifice, a peace-offering, two heifers, five rams, five he-goats, five ewe-lambs of a year old: this [was] the gift of Nathanael the son of Sogar.
24: ¶ On the third day the prince of the sons of Zabulon, Eliab the son of Chælon.
25: [He brought] his gift, one silver charger, its weight a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels according to the holy shekel; both full of fine flour kneaded with oil for a meat-offering.
26: One golden censer of ten shekels, full of incense.
27: One calf of the herd, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole-burnt-offering,
28: and one kid of the goats for a sin-offering.
29: And for a sacrifice of peace-offering, two heifers, five rams, five he-goats, five ewe-lambs of a year old: this [was] the gift of Eliab the son of Chælon.
30: ¶ On the fourth day Elisur the son of Sediur, the prince of the children of Ruben.
31: [He brought] his gift, one silver charger, its weight a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels according to the holy shekel; both full of fine flour kneaded with oil for a meat-offering.
32: One golden censer of ten shekels full of incense.
33: One calf of the herd, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole-burnt-offering,
34: and one kid of the goats for a sin-offering.
35: And for a sacrifice of peace-offering, two heifers, five rams, five he-goats, five ewe-lambs of a year old: this [was] the gift of Elisur the son of Sediur.
36: ¶ On the fifth day the prince of the children of Symeon, Salamiel the son of Surisadai.
37: [He brought] his gift, one silver charger, its weight one hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels according to the holy shekel; both full of fine flour kneaded with oil for a meat-offering.
38: One golden censer of ten shekels, full of incense.
39: One calf of the herd, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole-burnt-offering,
40: and one kid of the goats for a sin-offering.
41: And for a sacrifice of peace-offering, two heifers, five rams, five he-goats, five ewe-lambs of a year old: this [was] the gift of Salamiel the son of Surisadai.
42: ¶ On the sixth day the prince of the sons of Gad, Elisaph the son of Raguel.
43: [He brought] his gift, one silver charger, its weight a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels according to the holy shekel; both full of fine flour kneaded with oil for a meat-offering.
44: One golden censer of ten shekels, full of incense.
45: One calf of the herd, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole-burnt-offering,
46: and one kid of the goats for a sin-offering.
47: And for a sacrifice of peace-offering, two heifers, five rams, five he-goats, five ewe-lambs of a year old: this [was] the gift of Elisaph the son of Raguel.
48: ¶ On the seventh day the prince of the sons of Ephraim, Elisama the son of Emiud.
49: [He brought] his gift, one silver charger, its weight was a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels according to the holy shekel; both full of fine flour kneaded with oil for a meat-offering.
50: One golden censer of ten shekels, full of incense.
51: One calf of the herd, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole-burnt-offering,
52: and one kid of the goats for a sin-offering.
53: And for a sacrifice of peace-offering, two heifers, five rams, five he-goats, five ewe-lambs of a year old: this [was] the gift of Elisama the son of Emiud.
54: ¶ On the eighth day the prince of the sons of Manasse, Gamaliel the son of Phadassur.
55: [He brought] his gift, one silver charger, its weight one hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels according to the holy shekel; both full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat-offering.
56: One golden censer of ten shekels, full of incense.
57: One calf of the herd, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole-burnt-offering,
58: and one kid of the goats for a sin-offering.
59: And for a sacrifice of peace-offering two heifers, five rams, five he-goats, five ewe-lambs of a year old: this [was] the gift of Gamaliel the son of Phadassur.
60: ¶ On the ninth day the prince of the sons of Benjamin, Abidan the son of Gadeoni.
61: [He brought] his gift, one silver charger, its weight a hundred and thirty [shekels], one silver bowl of seventy shekels according to the holy shekel; both full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat-offering.
62: One golden censer of ten shekels, full of incense.
63: One calf of the herd, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole-burnt-offering,
64: and one kid of the goats for a sin-offering.
65: And for a sacrifice of peace-offering, two heifers, five rams, five he-goats, five ewe-lambs of a year old: this [was] the gift of Abidan the son of Gadeoni.
66: ¶ On the tenth day the prince of the sons of Dan, Achiezer the son of Amisadai.
67: [He brought] his gift, one silver charger, its weight a hundred and thirty [shekels], one silver bowl of seventy shekels according to the holy shekel; both full of fine flour kneaded with oil for a meat-offering.
68: One golden censer of ten shekels, full of incense.
69: One calf of the herd, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole-burnt-offering,
70: and one kid of the goats for a sin-offering.
71: And for a sacrifice of peace-offering, two heifers, five rams, five he-goats, five ewe-lambs of a year old. This [was] the gift of Achiezer the son of Amisadai.
72: ¶ On the eleventh day the prince of the sons of Aser, Phageel the son of Echran.
73: [He brought] his gift, one silver charger, its weight a hundred and thirty [shekels], one silver bowl of seventy shekels according to the holy shekel; both full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat-offering.
74: One golden censer of ten shekels, full of incense.
75: One calf of the herd, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole-burnt-offering,
76: and one kid of the goats for a sin-offering.
77: And for a sacrifice of peace-offering, two heifers, five rams, five he-goats, five ewe-lambs of a year old: this [was] the gift of Phageel the son of Echran.
78: ¶ On the twelfth day the prince of the sons of Nephthali, Achire the son of Ænan.
79: [He brought] his gift, one silver charger, its weight a hundred and thirty shekels; one silver bowl of seventy shekels according to the holy shekel; both full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering.
80: One golden censer of ten shekels, full of incense.
81: One calf of the herd, one ram, one he-lamb of a year old for a whole-burnt-offering,
82: and one kid of the goats for a sin-offering.
83: And for a sacrifice of peace-offering, two heifers, five rams, five he-goats, five ewe-lambs of a year old: this [was] the gift of Achire the son of Ænan.
84: ¶ This was the dedication of the altar in the day in which [Moses] anointed it, by the princes of the sons of Israel; twelve silver chargers, twelve silver bowls, twelve golden censers:
85: each charger of a hundred and thirty shekels, and each bowl of seventy shekels: all the silver of the vessels [was] two thousand four hundred shekels, the shekels according to the holy shekel.
86: Twelve golden censers full of incense: all the gold of the shekels, a hundred and twenty shekels.
87: All the cattle for whole-burnt-offerings, twelve calves, twelve rams, twelve he-lambs of a year old, and their meat-offerings, and their drink-offerings: and twelve kids of the goats for sin-offering.
88: All the cattle for a sacrifice of peace-offering, twenty-four heifers, sixty rams, sixty he-goats of a year old, sixty ewe-lambs of a year old without blemish: this is the dedication of the altar, after that [Moses] consecrated [Aaron], and after he anointed him.
89: ¶ When Moses went into the tabernacle of witness to speak to God, then he heard the voice of the Lord speaking to him from off the mercy-seat, which is upon the ark of the testimony, between the two cherubs; and he spoke to him.
